Datacamp: Data Scientist with Python
Gain the career-building Python skills you need to succeed as a data scientist. No prior coding experience required. In this track, you'll learn how this versatile language allows you to import, clean, manipulate, and visualize data—all integral skills for any aspiring data professional or researcher. Through interactive exercises, you'll get hands-on with some of the most popular Python libraries, including pandas, NumPy, Matplotlib, and many more. You'll then work with real-world datasets to learn the statistical and machine learning techniques you need to train decision trees and use natural language processing (NLP). Start this track, grow your Python skills, and begin your journey to becoming a confident data scientist.

Project 1 Description: Investigating Netflix Movies and Guest Stars in The Office
In this project, you’ll apply the skills you learned in Introduction to Python and Intermediate Python to solve a real-world data science problem. You’ll press “watch next episode” to discover if Netflix’s movies are getting shorter over time and which guest stars appear in the most popular episode of "The Office", using everything from lists and loops to pandas and matplotlib. You’ll also gain experience in an essential data science skill — exploratory data analysis. This will allow you to perform critical tasks such as manipulating raw data and drawing conclusions from plots you create of the data. Press play to begin!

Project 2 Description: The Android App Market on Google Play
Mobile apps are everywhere. They are easy to create and can be lucrative. Because of these two factors, more and more apps are being developed. In this project, you will do a comprehensive analysis of the Android app market by comparing over ten thousand apps in Google Play across different categories. You'll look for insights in the data to devise strategies to drive growth and retention. The data for this project was scraped from the Google Play website. While there are many popular datasets for Apple App Store, there aren't many for Google Play apps, which is partially due to the increased difficulty in scraping the latter as compared to the former. The data files are as follows: - apps.csv : contains all the details of the apps on Google Play. These are the features that describe an app. - user_reviews.csv: contains 100 reviews for each app, most helpful first. The text in each review has been pre-processed, passed through a sentiment analyzer engine and tagged with its sentiment score.

Project 3 Description: The GitHub History of the Scala Language
Open source projects contain entire development histories, such as who made changes, the changes themselves, and code reviews. In this project, you'll be challenged to read in, clean up, and visualize the real-world project repository of Scala that spans data from a version control system (Git) as well as a project hosting site (GitHub). With almost 30,000 commits and a history spanning over ten years, Scala is a mature language. You will find out who has had the most influence on its development and who are the experts. The dataset includes the project history of Scala retrieved from Git and GitHub as a set of CSV files.

Project 4 Description: A Visual History of Nobel Prize Winners
The Nobel Prize is perhaps the world's most well known scientific award. Every year it is given to scientists and scholars in chemistry, literature, physics, medicine, economics, and peace. The first Nobel Prize was handed out in 1901, and at that time the prize was Eurocentric and male-focused, but nowadays it's not biased in any way. Surely, right? Well, let's find out! What characteristics do the prize winners have? Which country gets it most often? And has anybody gotten it twice? It's up to you to figure this out. The dataset used in this project is from The Nobel Foundation on Kaggle.

Project 5 Description: Dr. Semmelweis and the Discovery of Handwashing
In 1847, the Hungarian physician Ignaz Semmelweis made a breakthough discovery: he discovers handwashing. Contaminated hands was a major cause of childbed fever and by enforcing handwashing at his hospital he saved hundreds of lives.

Project 6 Description: Predicting Credit Card Approvals
Commercial banks receive a lot of applications for credit cards. Many of them get rejected for many reasons, like high loan balances, low income levels, or too many inquiries on an individual's credit report, for example. Manually analyzing these applications is mundane, error-prone, and time-consuming (and time is money!). Luckily, this task can be automated with the power of machine learning and pretty much every commercial bank does so nowadays. In this project, you will build an automatic credit card approval predictor using machine learning techniques, just like the real banks do. The dataset used in this project is the Credit Card Approval dataset from the UCI Machine Learning Repository.
